# Research-Project
The aquaculture fishing industry in the Philippines has been a vital factor in economic growth and sustainability of the country. However, numerous studies have observed a persistent decline in production due to challenges associated with maintaining optimal water quality suited for the species being cultured. Therefore, this project proposes to develop a device that automates and simplifies water quality monitoring and regulation processes. This implementation will adapt the Core IoT Functional Stack as the main system's architecture. In detail, the system will utilize an ESP32 MCU that hosts multiple ports for analog water quality sensors, consequently, controls the water change pump for the system's actuation feature. With the ESP-32's Wi-Fi module, sensor-derived data are transmitted through the Internet, which will then be fetched, interpreted, and stored towards a database. Moreover, the system will implement data redundancy utilizing both local server and Firebase cloud server to ensure reliability and data accessibility. Finally, a web application will further be developed as a means for data visualization for remote monitoring, subsequently, as an interface for users to configure and define port-specific variables for sensor data interpretation. Upon its completion, this project will be deployed and integrated into the USC Marine Station in Lapu-lapu City, Philippines, with the goal of addressing the inefficiencies inherent in their current manual operations.
